---
title: Donate
permalink: /take-action/donate/
breadcrumb: Donate
variant: tiptap
---
<p>President's Challenge would not be where we are today without the strong support of our donors and partners. Your donations will help our benefitting agencies to sustain their services in caring for those in need within our community.</p><p>As part of Singapore’s journey towards becoming a Smart Nation, PC will move towards digital payments. We will no longer be accepting cheque and cash payments for donations with effect from <strong>1 January 2024</strong>.</p><p>Your support and partnership in uplifting the Singapore communities in need remain important to us, and please make use of our online payment options, a seamless process for you to donate conveniently</p><p>100% of the donations raised through President's Challenge will be channelled to the benefitting organisations across various sectors including children with special needs, persons with disabilities, healthcare and families and elderly in need.</p><p>Once again, we thank you for your unwavering support.</p><h5><a href="https://donate.stripe.com/00gcQzevAcvq47e4gy" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">Donate Now!</a></h5><p>Donate to support the benefitting agencies supported by President’s Challenge, including those supported under the Empowering for Life Fund. 100% of your donations will go towards the agencies we support. Make a difference today!</p><p>Please email us <a href="pc_enquiry@ncss.gov.sg" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">pc_enquiry@ncss.gov.sg</a> or send us your <a href="https://form.gov.sg/5e7c0d4734d8b200113b99be" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">feedback</a> if you encounter any problem(s) in your submission.</p>